[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So, data modelling.
Now that we have our scaffold built out,
we build out the routes, we have the
router working, we got our config set up.
We have some utilities with middleware,
the server is running.
Everything's good.
Now we need to plug in some actual
data and the controller to that data.
Remember in the last step
we set all that stuff up?
>> Speaker 1: So now we just need to
replace the stuff that we have in here.
So if we go look in here, right we're
doing nothing but sending it back to okay.
We need to add in some models and
some controllers in here.
So the first thing we need
to do is before we do this,
we need to figure out how
our data is gonna look like.
But before we do that, we need to
figure out how to even model the idea.
So we can use schemas in Mongoose to add
structure and validations to our data.
So Mongo does not need schemas, though.
Remember, again, Mongo,
the database itself, doesn't need schemas,
we can just throw whatever we want at it.
Mongoose gives us the ability
to define those schemas and
those blueprints to rationalize about
our data and have certain guarantees and
validations and lifecycle checks,
and stuff like that.
That's Mongoose.
It's not Mongo.
>> Speaker 1: We also need some sort
of relationships with our data.
So for instance, users can create posts,
and posts have categories.
Right, so if a user can create posts,
that's a one to many relationship.
One user can have many blog posts.
Right, but a blog post only
belongs to one user and a blog
post can have many categories, right,
and a category can belong to many posts.
So that's a many to many relationship.
So if you've ever dealt
with databases in SQL,
then you kind of know
what I'm talking about.
If not, it's not that important,
this is not a database class,
this is not a class on Mongo,
it's a class on building a API.
And this is just a small part.
So, you can use whatever
database you want.
I just want you to know that's how
you should think about the data.
That's how we're gonna think about it.
>> Speaker 1: So, Mongoose makes that,
the setting of the relations
is actually pretty easy.
If you've ever dealt with
a relational database then
eventually it's like whatever, it's cool,
you normalize it then eventually
probably denormalize it later on.
But, which, you probably break stuff, but
what happens is Mongoose
actually makes it easy.
There's no join tables, none of that
stuff like that, it's just references.
So here's an example of
modeling a todo resource.
Comment, so require Mongoose, the first
thing we do is we make an schema.
And the way we do that is we can just call
new mongoose.Schema with a capital S.
That's a function that takes on an object.
This object is our blueprint.
So whatever properties we've thrown this
object, those are the properties we're
saying that we can use that's that
whatever property is pulling this object,
it's the same thing we were saying.
>> Speaker 1: Up here.
This is us modeling our data up here.
These are the properties that can exist.
That's what we're doing down here.
>> Speaker 1: So that means we want
a completed property on this resource and
its value type is a boolean.
>> Speaker 1: All right, so
it's either true or false.
And that's not something,
all right, if you know JavaScript,
boolean is not something that, that's
not something Mongoose or Mongo gave us,
it's just a boolean.
Everything in JavaScript's an object,
a boolean is no different.
So that's the boolean.
We can also add validations, there
should be a comma right here by the way,
but we can also add validations
to an object or to a property.
And the way we would do that is if you
wanted to just add more than just what
type the property is, you have to
use object literal as the value,
and then you can add
more properties on it.
So, we also went a content
property on a to do.
So, a to do says whether it's completed or
not, true or
false and then an actual content of
to do of the message or whatever.
It's type is string, so that's
exactly like saying completed boolean.
When you put an object right here and you
say type: string it's the same thing, but
we don't have to put type boolean up here
cuz that's the only thing we're doing.
We're not doing anything else
with this property right here.
So we can just say boolean.
But we wanted to do something else
with this property down here, so
we have to make this object literal.
We had to say hey,
you're type is gonna be string.
And then the validation that we
wanted was it has to be required.
So we put required true that means you
can not save a new document a new to do
without specifying this and
it has to be tied to the string.
So if you don't pass in a string to
the property content as your trying to
create a new one Mongo, or
Mongoose would throw an error.
>> Speaker 1: It will
throw a validation error.
And it will tell you where too,
it will point right to it.
>> Speaker 2: They're asking
if there is a date type?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, we're gonna get
to all the types right below this.
Yes, there is a date type.
>> Speaker 1: So, the next thing we need
to do is kind of what I talked about in
the last step is we made a new schema,
now we need to register the schema with
Mongoose, so I can tell Mongo about it.
And the only way we do that is we
use the mongoose.model method,
which I told you is a getter and a setter.
The first argument is the name of
the collection that we want to make, and
the second one is the blueprint for
that, the schema object.
So remember,
it's going to be lowercase and pluralized.
It doesn't matter what you put here,
lowercase and pluralized.
And then the actual thing that it returns
is the actual model that we'll
be using inside of our API.
So when want to query the todo model,
we'll be using this thing
right here that got returned.
So it makes sense to export it because
we'll be requiring it everywhere else.
>> Speaker 1: So usually you'll see
a pattern where this thing's just
module.exports=mongoose.model.
It'll just skip this line right here,
I just did it on two lines so
it's easy to read.
>> Speaker 1: Any questions on that?
>> Speaker 1: That's
like a basic blueprint.
This is valid, except for
this comma missing here.